# 02. Depositing schmeckels

Congratulations on passing problem 01. As you probably noticed the bank so far
doesn't do much, so let's try and expand the functionality a bit. Pinky promise we'll
get to the crypto soon!


## Tracking transactions

Next you should add a `deposit` command, which takes an `amount` and adds this
to the bank vault balance. But to keep an audit trail all deposits should be
kept in a transaction log. This will prove to have lots of benefits later. A
transaction log is just another way of saying that all operations that modify
the state are kept in an array, and the current state is derived by `.reduce`ing
this array.

For example, here's a transaction log that should reduce to balance of
250 schmeckels:

```js
[
  {cmd: 'deposit', amount: 130},
  {cmd: 'deposit', amount: 0},
  {cmd: 'deposit', amount: 120}
]
```

### Side quest

As an optional exercise, try writing a [`.reduce`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Reduce) / [`reduce`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functools.html#functools.reduce)
function that takes the above log, and arrives at the correct balance. To test
it out, try adding more entries to the log.

## Problem

You job now is to expand the `teller` and `bank` with the `deposit`
command, that is stored in a transaction log and updates the bank state (ie.
it's balance). When the bank gets a deposit command, it should reply with the
current balance like this: `{cmd: 'balance', balance: someNumber}`.
A good idea is to make `teller` a very simple CLI tool, reading commands and
arguments from `argv`.

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>

You can easily handle multiple commands using a switch statement like this:

```js
switch (command) {
  case 'balance':
    // ...
    break

  case 'deposit':
    // ...
    break

  default:
    // Unknown command
    break
}
```

A python alternative could be to use a dictionary:
```python
def check_balance():
    # ...
    return
def deposit():
    # ...
    return
def unknown_command():
    # Unknown command
    return

commands = {
    'balance': check_balance,
    'deposit': deposit
}
commands.get("balance", unknown_command)()
```



</details>

## Testing

Spin up your new `bank` to make a couple of deposit up to 250 schmeckels in
your bank, using `node teller.js deposit 123`/`python teller.py deposit 123`, and checking your balance.

[Continue to problem 03](03.md)
