# 04. Persistence

Having our bank lose all transactions between restarts is not only annoying,
but also bad for operations and business. 100% uptime is not a bet we want to
make in our bank.

## Problem

Persisting the transaction log to disk is as easy as calling `JSON.stringify`(js)/`json.dumps`(py) on
our transaction log and writing the string to disk.
Loading the transaction log back in is just using `require` on the resulting
JSON file in javascript, or reading the file with `json.load` in python.
Don't over-think things here, there's heaps of way this can be
optimised and there are many sequencing problems here that you can spend the
rest of the week ironing out, but that's not why we're here. They are good to
keep in mind and note, though. Here's some of the ones we've thought of: race
conditions with multiple tellers making operations at the same time, writing
only new records to disk, only replying to the teller after the log has been
committed to disk, etc.

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>

You can take advantage of the 2nd argument of
`JSON.stringify(obj, null, indent)` to get pretty printing of your JSON file.

A python alternative, is to specify the indent alternative: `json.dumps(obj, indent=2)`

This will make debugging and some of the following exercises easier.

</details>

## Testing

Test that your `bank` produces a transaction JSON file by issuing it a couple
of `deposit` and `withdraw` commands. Also check that the balance is the same
before and after restarting. 

[Continue to problem 05](05.md)
