# 07. Ensuring the integrity of the transaction log

<details>
  <summary>Solution and commentary to problem 06</summary>

```js
var sodium = require('sodium-native')
// Allocate Buffer for output hash
var output = Buffer.alloc(sodium.crypto_generichash_BYTES)
// Convert input to string and then Buffer
var input = Buffer.from("Hello, World!")

// Compute blake2b hash
sodium.crypto_generichash(output, input)

// Convert bytes to printable string
console.log(output.toString('hex'))
```

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import libnacl

# Compute blake2b hash
h = libnacl.crypto_generichash(b'Hello, World!')

# Convert bytes to printable string
print(h.hex())
```

Note that the outputted data may contain any byte, and not all bytes are ascii friendly, 
which is why you need to convert the result to either `hex` or `base64` to print it.

</details>



Using a hash we can start making our transaction log much more secure to
mitigate the risk outlined in our threat model, in our earlier exercise.
Remember the goal is to make sure that it is hard for an adversary to tamper
with the transaction log.

A first step in doing this is adding integrity checks to the log. We can use the
hashing primitive we learned about in the previous exercise to hash each entry
of the log to make it easier to detect when tampering happens. An easy way to
hash a log entry is to use `JSON.stringify`/`json.dumps` and adapt your solution from 06.

<details>
  <summary>javascript</summary>
  
```js
function appendToTransactionLog (entry) {
  // entry is the messages received by the bank. We wrap it in an extra object
  // as this makes verifying the hashes a lot easier
  log.push({
    value: entry,
    hash: hashToHex(JSON.stringify(entry))
  })
}
```
</details>
<details>
  <summary>python</summary>
  
```python
def append_to_transaction_log(entry):
  log.append({
    'value': entry,
    'hash': hashToHex(json.dumps(entry))
  })
```
</details>

Hashing each item gives us the possibility of detecting any tampering with
that particular entry. However as you may have guessed we only mitigate editing
a particular record, while the most insidious attack is adding, deleting and
reordering records. We could get around this by hashing the transaction log as
a whole, every time we append to it, however this will become inefficient as the
log grows and also seems plain wasteful. It also has some subtle security issues
out of scope for now.

A solution to all the above is called a hash chain. A hash chain is a list where
each entry's hash value is the hash of the previous item's `hash` AND the
current `value`. This makes the entries "causally dependent" (not casually
dependent), and guarantees that you cannot reorder the log and it is easy to
verify.

One edge-case with referring to the previous hash is that you need a "genesis" hash for the first entry in the log:
<details>
  <summary>javascript</summary>
  
```js
var genesisHash = Buffer.alloc(32).toString('hex')

function appendToTransactionLog (entry) {
  var prevHash = log.length ? log[log.length - 1].hash : genesisHash
  log.push({
    value: entry,
    hash: hashToHex(prevHash + JSON.stringify(entry))
  })
}
```
</details>
<details>
  <summary>python</summary>
  
```python
genesis_hash = b"\x00".hex()*32

def append_to_transaction_log(entry):
  prev_hash = log[-1]["hash"] if len(log) else genesis_hash
  log.append({
    'value': entry,
    'hash': hashToHex(prev_hash + json.dumps(entry))
  })
```
</details>


## Problem

Convert the transaction log into a hash chain and verify the integrity when you
start the bank. A good way to approach is to feed all the `entry.value`s to your
reduce function and checking that you get the same `hash` as the persisted JSON
file.

## Testing

Test that the various `teller` commands still work as expected. Then try
modifying the transaction log by hand and restart `bank`. Try all the attack
scenarios (editing, adding, deleting and reordering). When restarted the bank
should detect that the transaction log has been tampered with.

[Continue to problem 08](08.md)
